# Bankruptcy Prediction Model

In financial literature, the topic of corporate bankruptcy prediction has been a classical problem (Alaka et al., 2018). Aliakbari (2009) defined corporate bankruptcy as a situation where a business is incapable to fulfil its financial commitments and seeks legal intervention to either restructure its debts or sell off its assets. There exist several factors that may lead to bankruptcy, including economic downturns, mismanagement of funds, financial negligence, fraudulent activities, natural disasters etc. Bankruptcies have a catastrophic effect as they lead to job losses, financial instability, and loss of investor confidence (Alaka et al., 2018). 
Predicting bankruptcy is a challenging task for any organization. As a result, the domain of bankruptcy prediction has garnered considerable interest both in economic research and among practitioners to develop a bankruptcy prediction model (BPM) that yields optimal accuracy (Hosaka, 2019). This endeavour commenced with Altman's (1968) seminal work and has persisted through Agarwal and Taffler's (2008) research. 
A BPM can serve as an early warning system for companies facing financial distress. By identifying these companies early on, managers can make informed decisions to avoid bankruptcy and improve their financial performance (Kumar and Ravi, 2007). Therefore, correct evaluations of bankruptcy risk are crucial for banks and other financial organisations. 
With the current economic and financial crises worldwide, bankruptcies are becoming more prevalent even for large institutions. According to Allianz Trade (2022), after two years of decline in the Covid era, Bankruptcies are expected to rise by 19% in 2023 globally.
